We covered a lot about the reactive approach.
There is one other nice feature I want to show you though let's add a new area to our form maybe below
the radio buttons here.
Here I want to add a new div an endless div a one to allow the user to dynamically add form controls.
Let's say I want to allow the user to add his hobbies so your hobbies something like that then add a
button with some bootstrap classes button and then maybe button default.
Make it of type button that's important so that this button doesn't accidentally submit the whole form.
And here I'll say add hobby.
Now when the user clicks the button I want to dynamically add a control to my form here and that's actually
super simple to do.
Specifically I want to add this control to an array of controls because I might have multiple hobby's.
So I'll add a click listener here on ADH hobby's seems like a bit like an appropriate name for this
method here.
And then there again I want to add controls so I'll add the method.
In what type of code.
On at hobby like this.
And now I need to add a new control type of control to my overall form.
Unnamed hobby's because that is what I'll store in there in the end.
And as I said this should be an array because it could be no hobbies or 10 or 100.
So the type is not foreign control and it does not form group.
Instead it's a form array.
Make sure to import this from an English forms as well.
Now a former array of course holds an array of controls so you pass an array to initialize it in Missouri.
You could already initialized some form controls with new form control or like I am doing it here.
You leave it empty to not have any hobbies at the beginning.
Now when we click on Add Harbi I want to add a new hobby to that array.
So here I need to access my form.
Now I want to get access to my hobby's array and I can do this by gathering hobby's.
It is a control in my overall form in the end.
And now I need to tell typescript that this is of type for erate you not get an error.
You really have to do this but here we have to explicitly cast does so by placing a lower than sign
then form arrays of the type and then a greater than sign and then placing this in parentheses were
telling typescript.
This part here actually is a form array so everything enclosed in these outer parentheses now is treated
as form array.
So now I can push a new control on desirée if it would have not cost this we would get an error or so.
Now we can push a new form control there but I will outsource this to keep the lines short.
So here to control is created and stored in a constant for and control and the hobby.
Well that should be something the user can now enter so will actually created with no default value.
Of course you could also change just be able to pass an argument to on ad hobby and then pre-populated
with this value.
I want to add a validator though so this still works because I'm creating a normal form control here
so the required evaluator seems appropriate because the hobby input should not be empty.
And now I can push just control on my array of controls.
With this we are creating as we are able to add controls but we won't see it.
We need to synchronize it with our age HTML code.
Therefore on this outward day of the year I'll add a directive form array name.
So again you see the pattern we had form control name to tail angular that we want to connect the input
to a form control.
We had formed group name to do the same for a foreign group and now we have four array names to do the
same for an array.
So form array name and the name was hobbys the name which shows an hour typescript object does tails
angler that somewhere in this day of our array will live now we can use this array here.
So I will create a new day with the ID form group for them boobed strips styling.
And here I simply want to have an input which allows the user to enter the actual hobby.
So does type text is all right.
I now somehow need to loop through all the controls which are all in this array.
So on my form group here I will actually add Engy for loop to a loop through all my hobby controls.
So in my sign up for him that would be my hobbies which I can get like this and there the controls with
that I can loop through all them and I also want to extract the index of the current iteration.
I will need this to assign this input to one of these dynamically created controls because on this input
I of course want to add the form controls the S class.
But besides this very important I need to add form control name because we still need to synchronize
this input with the dynamically created input.
Now this dynamically triggered input will not have a name chosen by us but it isn't an array.
So the name will simply be the index in this array which is why I'm retrieving it here so I can simply
bind form control name and now a will need property binding because I'm now not passing a string.
I'm instead passing does local variable I'm creating here to pass this index.
Let's save this and see if this works as expected.
If we have a look at our console no errors let's click at Hobby and we indeed see a new input.
No errors.
Still let's check it.
It's invalid.
This looks good.
So if I enter a hobby here now it becomes valid.
And now if I entered the rest year and go to the console and hit submit.
You will see that in the value of this form.
We actually now have hobbies which is an array where you have cooking.
And of course we could also add sports and just newly submitted for and you would now find that this
array of course holds cooking and sports.
So this is how you can use a former array with you react that approach very easily.
It's all about synchronizing it in the end and about knowing that you have to explicitly costed to make
this work